 So we're going to do a binaural approach for an endoscopic Transfer noidel and the first step is once you've checked your endoscope you insert your endoscope into the Because most of the surgeons that no that much trainers. Okay, not Okay, so the phases we're going through our I need we need to identify the middle turbinet This inferior turbinate that will be the middle turbinate and I need a freer, please The aim is to Lateralize the middle turbinate by fracturing it at the base So that you can get access because behind the middle turbinates you will find a Mucosa covering the sphenoid ostium, which is your entry to the sphenoid sinus And it's not easy to break Yeah And Then the aim once you find this phenoid ostium is to go into the sphenoid ostium because that will help you Open it a bit larger Once you get to this point you want to create your rescue flap after you've broken your Middle turbinate and deviated it away from you and could I have the inside knife, please? Okay You Going carefully And you can utilize your knife to further Push your turbinate while as you're going into the space You You'd want to turn your knife towards the mucosa From the sphenoid ostium and make your cut backwards towards The bony the cartilaginous part of the septum You then use your knife to dissect inferiorly to expose the mucosa To expose the bones, right? And then once you've exposed This is your rescue flap which you can use later on to help you with With CSF leak repair if you've had any issues You Not back Thank you Could I have the drill just to extend the phenoid ostium It is And Once I've extend expanded it a little bit the usual step is usually to To use an up cut so that you can extend this and turn Laterally so you can give your assistant the chance to go into the other side And we need a bit of suction I'm just turn it on Very sterile I still don't have space for you You You If I have the suction You Thank you And once you've had enough of an opening can I have the back of the up cut please You At this stage I'm breaking across the Nasal septum This stage is called posterior septostomy You You Thank you You Once you've had that entry to the other side You have your landmark, which is the warmer, which is the posterior aspect of your septal stomach Now can I have the back bite of this Please It would be this one Thank you very much and it should be on the right side Towards the right. Thank you Your back biter will help you cut through Try and get you a better picture Through the septum coming back towards yourself So you can have your assistant access from the right nostril from the left nostril Okay Thank you very much now Because I know the mucosa here is a bit thicker. So I need a knife just to open on the other side The usual instrument would be the micro debrider just use it in a second once it's open here You Yeah, it's a very thick mucosa, yeah, which can happen It's fine And can I have the freer now, please? Knife back to you. Thank you very much And once you have your freer on the other side now you have access on both Nostrils You can ask your assistant to help you with getting into the other side for suction and for the section you also Need to make sure that you open the contralateral sphenoid osteon which you can Somewhat see in this image here Okay, once that's open you can have your run juror Yeah, a big run juror, please You use your run juror to break through in both sides Can you hold the head a little bit this moving yeah, that's fine And you usually break a piece of the vomer which is here And the rest is extending your Anterior sphenoid otomy which is now you've opened the sphenoid osteon you want to extend it And you do that using the drill As you want a wide window into the sphenoid sinus which is the base of your Surgical corridor Could you go with the suction on to the left nostril? If you just go all the way to the top if you can see You can see the sphenoid It's not Let me push It's just going through the mucosa here Yeah It's okay It's okay if you can just whatever suction you can make It's just the sound It's quite enough So you basically want a wide opening here Use your high-speed drill You should try and avoid Drilling through the mucosa because that will cause bleeding and will hinder your surgical corridor Yeah, it's very very low, but it's working if you just unplug it That's okay Could I have a run jaw just to remove this mucosa? Okay Okay Okay Do it from the other side maybe Thank you Much better Much better Very thick mucosa Okay Run jaw please Something to swap Okay There's a small septation in the sinus You don't have to remove the mucosa So that you have a good exposure to you Mr. Ihack, this is not a race, but you're progressing very well compared to other participants Thank you And other participants will hate that Thank you Okay Yeah, just clean this I probably need a bit of suction on the other side if you can You see, it's not great Going down Through your window in the middle Sometimes it's really difficult I can't get you in Thank you Okay Sometimes it's really difficult I can't get you in Thank you Come underneath Push it up Thank you It should be on this side now Keep going There it is And just there And that could help me push this away Yeah, that's perfect Thank you Okay The problem with three instruments is that there's not enough space Okay Can you back up a little bit, just a little bit Thank you very much At this stage I'd say suction on Yeah You're not in the middle, that's okay Okay Okay Okay Another important thing is you want to make sure that your entrance into the sphenoid sinus is as straight as possible so that you don't have a lip You have to go above Yeah And drill if we can see Thank you Thanks a lot If you can turn the suction on, that would be Sharpen the socket, right? Hmm? Sharpen the socket Yeah, use that sharp instrument Sharp instrument is important Okay Turn the socket on Thank you That's that, one more Yeah, if you come out a little bit, slightly, yeah Thank you Sometimes the aroma doesn't break straight away It's just a little bit, maybe a half Okay It's just a slight bit of this, if you can't just, sorry Sorry about that Hmm? Sorry about that Okay Sorry Sorry I'm sorry Okay Okay Okay The suction a little bit is just, yeah Ideally, you'd want to see the whole fossil floor with Me planum And, yeah And you do that by removing the mucosa, yeah Okay Okay So, just to point to the structure If you come back a little bit Okay, so carotid pillars would be going in this direction On both sides Floor of the Sela Tertica And then at the bottom here, you'd have the cliva recess And at the top, you'd have the Optic chiasm running this way And the planum finodale would be there At this stage, you'd start drilling the Sela Tertica To start your resection of your tumor Okay Thank you Okay There is a weird Jira You want your drilling to remain within the Boni Sela You're saying there is a dura underneath this, right? Yeah Where? It's unusual Okay Awesome A bit of a wash down this section Yeah Okay Just try from this side Yeah There is a wash down Yeah, a little bit Yeah, we're blocked again Okay Okay Okay If you could keep the sucker on that side We have to leave it open for a bit Okay Nice Your orientation is your vomer, which is here So keep it in the middle of your field Yeah Okay I can't use it Some wash Hmm? I'm attached Yeah, I see that That was a helpful new phase of resection Sorry? That's the swatch, right? I didn't dig through this Okay Okay Where is this dura? Okay This wash This is heating up as well Oh, the dura? Yeah Is there an actual dura there at the bottom? Yeah, there's a chima as well Really? Gotcha Why can't I find it then? Okay Let's have the run dura just to see if there's anything else No Very thick, I think it was Uh-huh Orientation is on the... Okay, if you just hold the sucker it's going to fall off Okay Okay Okay Okay I don't understand why I'm not getting to the dura now Okay Hemosterile suction Okay I should be on to chima now No? No Very odd Let's try Prevent drilling Okay Okay Okay See, you're drilling higher than Jonathan Yeah I saw that, but I just need to take out the mikoza now Yeah, and then find the drop of the... Okay Okay You're going to drill a bit more at the bender, I think Yeah, to make it flat a little bit Okay Okay Okay I'm just going to get the mikoza now Thank you Okay It's quite tough Okay Is there no smaller opcut? So once you've opened... No, not yet No No suction Okay See that thing you've gone through is the layer of dura Huh? Those sort of fibrous... Dura No, I think that's the dura, yeah, and the brown is the chima Okay I'm going to start drilling again Is there an opcut or something to break? Other than this? Small downcutting? No, that's all I have I just need to make the burr a little bit bigger Yeah, that's true Okay Come to your jib Okay Okay Can you come up? Okay Suction Sorry Okay Still big Still big, don't you think? Hm? The opcut is still big Yeah, yeah, yeah It's chunky, all right That's okay Oh, that's the dura Yeah It's intact I thought I punctured it Wasn't that... Huh? Huh? It wasn't that Still intact, though, it doesn't... Oh Okay, circle knife, please Yes Okay Okay I need one to start at the edges I would extend the bony opening as well Open the... Open the dura In a cruciating manner Okay It doesn't usually expand this much Yeah The dura, but... I really need it And if this is a pituitary adenoma You don't want to put a suction in and suck all your... Tumor specimen Do we... Do you have... You have a... Maybe, if you like A... An angled curette, please An angled ring curette Thank you very much Small one And... The curette is used to curette the tumor out And there's some tumor there And insert your curette And you try to get the superior bit so that you don't... Because if you take the anterior bit, the dura collapses on you And you won't be able to... Take all of the tumor Okay And your assistant at this point can take the ronjor or the pituitary In the sector to get samples of the tumor For it to be sent for histopathology Informal Informal Okay Informal Suction Is that it? Okay Tumor Tumor Curette This is still made Curette Can you just clean it and then I'll inspect inside That's it, right? Okay Okay Big wash, that should be it Cool Okay That's all, thank you very much That's everything, I'll just clean up this bit Identify your procedure Identify your procedure once you've chosen your rescue flap of choice You need to suction the coena to clear the airway Out of any secretions And that's it, close, thank you