 Again, going through the nostril, I'll have a look inside and heading first down towards the crania. Again, inside the crania, there's nothing there to suck at the moment. And then we can go up and through there. And then further in, I can introduce the middle peduncle. Okay, this is it. And we're gonna go through the pierce and try to find the plane slowly lateralizing the crania. Quite good. And through that now, I wanna see the ostium. So that's the middle terminal that you've lateralized there. Yeah, that's the middle terminal. So, again, if you're not sure, what you do is you go back to the crania and measure about a couple of centimetres and a half. And that will get you to the crania. Hopefully, because sometimes it's covered with mucosa, it's not completely thematized. And that probably looks like it is the ostium, the sphenoid ostium. So, once you identify that, then we'll need the knife, please. And then we'll make a rescue incision for the rescue flap. So when you put the knife in, you always come back up with the camera. Go in and follow the knife to avoid making any unnecessary injuries. And then you go in, find the ostium, again, turn it around and make an incision. Head back about a centimetre and a half. And that is inside the mucosa. So you can identify the bomber. Okay, now again the knife comes in exactly the same way. And back to you. And now we're going to bring down the mucosa that we've made the incision and up and expose the bone. So, for that, there are various ways of doing it, but what we essentially need to do is we need to identify the other sphenoid ostium as well. And the way we're going to do that is we're going to break the septum when it becomes from the ostium to the cartilaginous one. And you just feel like it kind of gives away. And we're going to head to the other side, sub-mucosally. It is similar but not the same. Yes, I think the mucosa is tough. Yeah. Just at the bottom, not quite through. I find it's just like, actually the mucosa, you know, it does the same thing. It's just at the bottom there. You have like some seasons. Yeah. The next few seasons. Maybe. Thank you. And this one as well. Again, when you put an instrument in, you put it in and you follow it. That's it. The mucosa is free. And the tip, and I'm going to freeze again. Again, try to go under the bone. There it is. Nice. So you go to the other side. And try to feel the mucosa. And find the other sphenoid, upstream, sub-mucosally. You can go in actually and you can see it. It's there. And you should just identify it. Sometimes you just need to keep it a bit up as well. Just get a little bit of your camera there. And you can't really see. I mean, this is the part that you follow the bone. So you can't really see the bone. So you have to go in and you can see it. And you can't really see the bone. I mean, this is the part that you follow the bone. So the curvature of the bone should take you where you need to be. So you're crossing the septum there. Yes, that's the septum. And deep to that is the bone. It's quite tough. Fine, okay. Do you have the backbiter now, please? Yes. Now we're going to do the sternoceptostomy. Backbiter should end on the right. You pull it in, look, find the septum, and you just try to bite. I think the mucosa is just elastic, basically. It just comes as a memory that the mucosa doesn't tend to have. Sometimes if it's broken, I think this is kind of a fragment. And you can just take the... ...freers and just free it back. It doesn't matter as long as you get it out of the way. Because that way, what you need doing is you are giving the assistant some space so you can put the suction in. Can I have the epidural, please? Yes. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Let's pull it out. Okay, let's take the backbiter. Let's see if we can take some more out now that we have some space left. Okay. Thank you. And once you have that, what we're going to do is we're going to use the debrider. And we can take some of this mucosa out. Maybe have a better view. And the debrider is, I think, mis-rotated. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and just screw that tight. It should lock it. Yeah. Okay. Excellent. Okay, now let's get the microdebrider, please. Yeah. So, if you just press straight shot. Yeah, microdebrider. Okay. Some of this flap can be removed. Especially, it's very elastic. There is no suction on this debrider. We can try and attach. You get reasonable suction. Okay. If you just turn on at the sides. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay. What you also can do is, now it starts sucking. I don't know what I did there. On this side. Yeah. Yeah. Sucking that. Yeah, that's it. Okay. Now, if you put that on the other nostril. Have a look where you are. Come across. On the other nostril. So, you're aiming to come through the mucosa. Yeah, come through the mucosa. From contralateral. This way, you protect the contralateral turbinate. Now, repeat what you did on the other side, please. Yeah. There is going to be fragments of the septum here. Not yet. Now, depending on the ferocity of this, you can actually sometimes get some of the septum as well. Fragments. And we have some access. Not very. Okay. Please, again, please. So, now that we can see a bit more, we try to breathe a bit more and then try a lung max again. And the way you do it is, okay, you know that you're at one, the sphincter goes to this here. So, then you just go and find, like, look exactly the opposite way that it is. Yeah, that looks. Looks like it coming into view. Yeah, coming into view. It's quite stuck, actually. Now, we have this fragment here involved. Run there again. Okay. Okay. Quite aggressive section, I guess. On the, on the septum. This comes as a whole fragment, so I'm just going to leave it. Okay. It is breaking the posterior septum. Yeah, it's breaking the posterior, yeah. Good to know. I mean, you have, you just have to expand the, the, your access in time so you can be comfortable with having two instruments. You need to be able to see when you are on the sphenoid and on the cellar, you need to be able to have freedom of movement again. Okay. So, when you, when you use the, the debrider, try to avoid, you know, what you need to, what you try to preserve. So, the sphere of terminus here, move it, turn it away from it so you can only work on the other side. Okay. But having said that, it doesn't really... ...stuck it up. Right, can you give us again the ronger, please? The ronger. So, I mean, it's a combination of this part, it's a combination of the deuterium, the... ...of... So, it's intermittent suction, basically. Yeah, yeah. For some reason. I think it blocks. I think, I think. Probably, yeah. But I don't think irrigation would have made any difference to that. It's just, it's, it's a gel we use. And so, it's just gonna have to be drawn. Okay, and this... Okay. And this. Now, the bomber is always your midline. That's why it's important to have it identified. So, when you are on the sphenoid, there can be, you know, you have septation which can lead... Rather than going to midline, it can go, it can be oblique, it can go either way. Then you can end up in the... You can end up, you know, in front of the carotid pillar or something like that, okay? So, if you have questions, you know... Let's get the... Let's see if we can manage this. Let's get the upcut. Let's see if we can manage to get any upcut there. Yeah. So, if you can't, yeah, you need an upcut. If you can't... Yeah, you may struggle with this upcut. Yeah, probably. Okay. Okay, let's get the drill. Yeah. So, if you just select... Yeah, and then... Yeah, perfect. Okay. So, I'm just going to make it to, just to enlarge the... Let me know if you want suction. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, of course, you have to try this. You need three or you can do... Yeah. Okay, this is definitely... A bigger opening. You can come again to the other side. Is it working? Yeah, yeah. I think we've got some suction, yeah. Now, once the drill is in, you know, in terms of economy of movement, you can just use the drill and drill everything. So, you don't have to use any more... Can I do some irrigation or something? Yeah. So... Following the, you know, the bomber is like a rhomboid and you just want the half of it drilled. Okay. So, you don't... So, Mr. Baradzi likes to do it like that. He doesn't really use... You have a Samsung... Do you have a gold or something? A... A gold. I don't really have gold. I can give you some wash if it's helpful. Yeah. And suck that in. Yeah. I normally don't do that, but... Okay. Now, once you drill the bomber, you're happy with the drilling of the bomber, then you have to expand the anterior. So, this is part of the anterior sphenoid... sphenoidopomy, basically. Mm-hmm. And the worry is... If you can have a crease, please? That if you come with a drill and you haven't really stripped the mucosa down, laterally, you can get the septal branch of the sphenopalata and artery, and then you can have bleeding. And normally, it's come to the corner of the bottom right... each side of the... of the sphenoid. So, what you want to do is, once you have identified the bomber, then you just come slowly and strip the mucosa of the bone, of the anterior sphenoid wall. Mm-hmm. And so, you have... When you can... Then you can up-cut it. You can take it with a drill. What is... If you do it with a drill, good practice is to do it with... from inside out. And that keeps the mucosa safe. Mm-hmm. And with that, the vascular supply will collapse. Because if you want to do a raised antero-septal flap, this is the... This is the vascular supply of the flap. Now, just for demonstration, I'll try and do it in non-supply to avoid having so much... I'll do it with the up-cut. So, you're just expanding there your anterior sphenoid wall? Yeah, expansion of the anterior sphenoid wall. I mean, you're very good at naming what I'm doing. And I'm just talking. Normally, I like to talk about it. But I think it was very simple. I think it was easy. So, yes, the anterior sphenoid wall is being expanded by taking a lateral lint. And with your up-cut as well, you can... You just need a thought instrument, thought-taking instrument that will give you the strength to expand your... Your anterior sphenoid opening. Now... It's just a bit difficult with the... It's just a bit difficult with the... Yes, please. Again, you have to kind of persevere here a lot. Try to get... Okay. Now, this is sphenoid. There is a septum in the midline. There's a mucosa of the same sphenoid. We can drill this hip lower down a bit as well just to get some more access. There we go. See the break? I don't want to break it because it's a bit unpredictable the way it's being drilled. It's a bit unpredictable the way it breaks. So, getting a wide exposure and a wide access. Okay. Makes the whole operation much easier. Some more strength. Okay, I think that's enough. Some more. Yeah. I mean, to be fair, if you want to be completely imitating life, we should be now talking about life, where have you been last night, things like that. Anyway, world-keeping. Professional. How's the on-call? What? How's the on-call? Yes, exactly. How much I hate my life as a fellow. When the last time was you got to go home as a fellow? Six weeks ago. Yeah. Well, the best... The thing that was very popular in discussion was what am I doing with being homeless, because I was homeless for four weeks. My last four weeks and things, I was actually... Nice. How did you cope with that? I went to the on-call room for a few days. Chris Sears, you know him, Chris? I've met, yeah, I've met Chris. Chris, Chris's house. And then I was in... I was in a... I was in a room by King's for a few days as well. It was just disaster. I mean, you know, it's really difficult. Now I can see a little more, so... So expanding more, wide accesses. Yeah. Wide accesses is... And you are safe. We haven't gone into the sphenoid sinus yet, so we are not anywhere close to carotid arteries or anything like that. The only thing that we can damage is the septal glands. And we've got a nice mucosa strip. Yeah. So we're seeing the mucosa, so we know that we are in the sphenoid. Sometimes, if you don't do it now, and if you don't deal with the mucosa, it tends to, from the top, it tends to trickle down blood on your scope, on your camera. It's quite annoying. Right, OK. Now, let's see. Can you have the picture, please? Let's see what we have. We can strip some of the mucosa. So we can identify the septum. And then we can see if we need to drill anything inside the sphenoid. OK. And we'll make a few chunks. So there is one septum here. Now, as I said, we do not care where the septum goes. It's not a landmark or midline. We only use vomer for midline, identification of midline. Now, this part of the operation normally bleeds when you strip the mucosa from the sphenoid sinus. So what you do is you... You can... Nice. OK. UPCUT again. So now we have a bit more room. We can expand... ...our sphenoid opening. And the mucosa coming in is fine, provided that you have your... ...the bone is gone. Because you just want to go in somewhere. And now... So this is fine. All right. Let's have a look now. Drill, please. Sorry? Drill. Drill? Yeah. Get the suction. You struggling? All right. There we go. Just coming across. The mucosa opening is not great. It is. We're going to drill there. Now, here, we can kind of gaze while we're doing that how much... So I don't have access to the whole fly by recess because my opening of vomer drilling is not adequate. So I can just go more. Or what the tradition is, is that if you're not sure about the anatomy, go south, head south, drill south. Try to identify because it's the safe way to go. Midline south is safe. It looks like that's diving down into the clival recess there. Yeah, that's the clival recess there. Quite sticky mucosa. I like these headphones. They're like my aftershocks for running. Yeah. And... Adrian Casey at Queen Square quite often operates with aftershocks on. Oh, Casey? Yeah. Well, I have in the past, even though I thought that it was quite weird. Unless you're a consultant, basically, I think you should defer from doing that. But, yeah, I have them. I use them lots. I really love them. It's actually nice because you can hear a bit of music. And you don't annoy everyone else with your shitty Greek music. I like it because it's nice and acoustic. Yeah, there we go. Thank you. Now, as I said, if you want to expand the sphenoidotomy, you can go from deep and come out. And that's to avoid damaging the mucosa. You stop once you feel the bone gives away. Right, let's drill this part now. Now, also, when you get trained, you're told that what you should be doing is you should be doing every step differently, which means that don't go to start dealing with the sphenoid unless you've done the antishepnoidotomy. Can you say the phrase again? I think this needs to be... The phrase? If I can... There's a lot of... Yep. Okay. I mean, we don't really... We need to have the sphenoid... Sorry, the pseudotomy of mucosa. It depends what your plan for repair is. So, if you are using... In the majority of time, if you're just using stuff in the cellar and not going to use a flap, a receptor flap, a HADAP flap, or a FAT, you can leave some stuff below. For extended, especially, and also if you have a C-septum where you really want to have everything flat, you need to take all these things down. Yep. Now, again, I can see that my instrument hits the bottom of the vomer. Yeah, see how just drilling the vomer there? Drilling the vomer more so I can have access to lower down. Okay. Okay. Okay, wash, please. So, what are you trying exactly to find out? In here? Yeah. So, if you open and explore the cellar and see what you find in... No, I mean, no, what do you mean like with this project? So, looking at how we move through the different phases of the operation, how we can use AI to label the different stages. Okay. But rather than using like the camera, you're using, you know, mapping the surgeon as well and... Yeah, so how AI can track what we're doing. Can you show me the tracking that is? Okay, now we need to identify the cellar. These are the carotid pillars there. You can see it nicely on this side. Yep. And this is on the other side. And I think... Okay. Okay, now we need to identify the second section. Can I have the section, please, for a second? Yeah, sure. Thank you. So, before we proceed, I think we've done... We need to identify more anatomy. And what we need to do and what we're curious to find is where we think the cellar is. Okay, so that's actually... This is the cellar and this is kind of called the cliva. This is here. And you can see down there as well. That's the cellar. And you see that is a midline. Okay. So we need to just take more... Can I have the back pipe and make it... The back pipe is... Sorry, the upper. Let's see if I can... Okay. Okay. Great. So, I don't have yet the whole cellar. I'm not in control because I don't have the inferior pit. I thought this is... I mean, this is a cliva, but we need to take a few more. So we need to go lower down, basically. And I think we're reaching the point where we need to go way back. Yeah. Okay, this is the main pit. The dump pit. Okay. Some more, please. On my hand. On my hand. On my hand. Wait one second. I'm just remembering that I make terrible faces when I'm concentrating. That's okay. More realistic. Let it wash. Let it wash. Let it wash. Let's see. Now, again, I mean, when you're from King's train, all these things, you are learning that you need to go back a little bit. You need to go back a little bit. You need to go back a little bit. I mean, when you're from King's train, all these things, you are learning not to use a lot of irrigation. With the idea being that you can... It confuses CSF liquid. You got? No, it's fine. Okay. Okay. Got the bronzer? Yeah. Let's see if I can move the angle a little bit. Maybe I need to angle it a little bit closer down. Okay, it's coming. Yeah, it's coming. Yeah. So just taking the mucosa out of the cryovalent recess. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. I think they didn't realize that. I think they didn't realize that it's basically, it settles there and becomes really thick. Okay. Now this part is easily breakable. You're in control of both sides. And the other side. Okay. Okay. When you're taking out the scope, use your instruments to push the tissues away so they don't get fogged or get anything out of the way. That's really annoying there. Okay, suction? Mm-hmm. Okay. Okay, that's free. Parotids are here. We have some, still some over there. That's the neurones, yeah? Okay. Yeah, your side is freed up nicely. Eh? Your side is freed up nicely. Yeah, yeah, it is. It's just a bit. It's interesting because normally it's the contra lateral side you have better access. And you can better... Does it freeze? That lip of septum is just stopping you a little bit, isn't it? Yeah. Oh, all right. Fair enough. Let's get the drill. Let's get the drill. Let's get that down there. Okay. Suction there. Okay, well actually I don't really need to persevere that much there. Because I have, I now have the whole cellar. Yeah. Yeah, you're right, right in the recess there. Nothing will become out in the middle. Just for the condition. Okay. Nothing will become out in the middle. Just for the condition. I don't do that to any chair that I have on the street. Because I don't have a saw. Okay. Stronger. Okay. I'll put the gravel. Nice. Okay. Right, so we've done with the sphenoid part. Okay, the mucosa is out. We've identified our anatomy. We have a large opening for the sphenoid sinus. It's well-pneumatized. And then we're going to make our opening of the cellar. Okay? We're going to drill the cellar. Get some... Just drill that flat. And while we're drilling that, it's going to be a little bit more difficult. Just drill that flat. And while we're drilling that, at the same time, we can... And make a... This is the plenum up there. So this is tuberculum and the plenum is up here. Okay, so we're going to expand it. That's where it should be going. And the way you measure it, if you don't have image guidance, you kind of identify where the cellar is. And measure it from there. Two of my last cases were to extend the perculum and it's almost... So now we're drilling enough. Just slowly in that part. We just want to find the dura. We just use the haptic feedback we get from the drill. So you're just exhaling away. Yeah, exhaling. But it's not just exhaling. It depends on what your pathology is. So if it's the pathology is a microadenoma, it will be a thin layer. It's going to just come out very quickly. If it is a functioning microadenoma that presents early, or a meningioma that doesn't have much cellar representation, or anything else, like a rough disease or something like that, you can feel the feedback there. It's falling down. Then you... It's thicker. Yeah. It's thicker, so you need to do a bit more drilling before you use your upcuts. The idea is with the upcuts, mostly the advances, you don't really cut. You just flick them up and down. Prevents you from getting anything damaged. I just need enough to get in. Okay, and you don't need to do big... You don't need big bites. Just small bites in the cili to get in. Once you have the axis in, the best way, again, is to head down. Yeah. Head down so you can find the flow of the cellar. And once you have that identified... Okay, let's do the other side. Okay. So you've got dura underneath you protecting. Yeah, so you should see the dura. It's two layers. The tumor capsule, that's the three layers that you will identify while you're opening. Depends what you're trying to do. You should be... Now, I think you should be... So if you want, for example, to go to the cavernous sinus, you need to open just the two layers of the dura. And then head lateral. Because that will splay the... The two layers of the dura splay and will perform the cavernous sinus. That's how Mr. Thomas likes to do when he goes there and takes the expansion of the tumor in the cavernous sinus inside, rather than just being pushed. For standard one, you just go through it. And then, in order to avoid... To get as much resection as you can, what you want to do is, you can, in fact, you do... extra capsular. So find the capsule and go around it. So make sure that you... Now, lateral... Your lateral expansion is still you get to the cavernous sinus. Yeah. The other thing is you need to be careful at the top when you have on the... When you reach the tuberculum. Now, if you get a CSF click there from an opening of the arachnoid, it's very difficult to treat at the top. Because it's very difficult, nothing will stick there, just because of gravity. And as you head towards the bottom and the lateral, so inferior-inferolateral, then you will see the carotid coming each side. So that's the carotid pillars, the beginning of the carotid pillars of... on the... or the vertical part of the carotid. That's what I'm going to call it. Okay. And then, let's see if we can get the other side as well. Ooh, we should have them... We should have them down by... Yeah, this is... So, have you given it a good try? Sorry? Have you managed to... Have you tried this? Have you done it as well? I have not done this yet. You haven't done it. I'm just watching everyone. So, I think we are good on my side. Just need to get a bit more on your side. Yeah. Yeah. Again, your opening is dictated by the pathology and the way you open. If you have a functioning adenoma, then you should be thinking... What you should be doing is, you should be doing a kind of a parallel opening and a parallel incision. If you have a macrodenoma, you do like an XX incision, or a cruciate. It's not a cruciate. It's an X. Okay, I think we are almost there. Do you have a dissector? We don't. We've got the freer... The freer. Okay, let's get the freer. That's fine. So, I like when you have the cellar, and when you have the tumour there, you can just go under it and see... Now, we are on the floor. Yeah. You can very quickly... Normally, if you do that, it will bleed. It's annoying, but it's fine. And then you have the identification of your capillary sinuses, and you can see some blue on the dura. So, let's get the opening. So, we've got a sickle knife. Thank you. Now, as I said, this is presumably a macrodenoma. We're going to do an incision as being a macrodenoma. Yeah. Which is... Well, it's an X. It's not even an X. It's an odd shape Y. And... Like that. So, I don't have to see it separately. Probably. Okay, the dura is quite tough. It's a dura. Oh, I see. There we go. Well, it's kind of a durotomy now. Imagine us being in Y. Yeah, it's quite tough, and the sickle knife is. Yeah, it's... All the sickle knives everywhere are black, but this is not the only one. But what I mean is you move away from the carotid. So, you go like that to the midline, like that to the midline. And then down. And then you head down, okay, not very lateral. Okay, so that's the cumul, presumably. Yeah. We have some... Yeah, ronger... Sorry. Curet. Curet, yeah. They're at 90 degrees. Yeah, 45. Do you have a 45? Yeah. No, no, the ring curet. We do. Is it the only one that you have ringed? Yeah. Look at the bottom there. It's quite a large one, but we do have... Yeah, that's fine, that's fine. Ah, here it is. This is the small. Oh, let's see. Is that the big? And then you take the cumul. So when do we finish the exercise? When you are... I mean, you can take the tumour out. Oh, so the tumour has to be out, okay, fine. Is that more than half? It's annoying here. So that's the extra capsular appendage? Yeah. I think. I wish all tumours were like that. For this part it's actually nice to have like a sticky, solid thing. But what you go, again, the principles of removing the tumour is first you're heading down. We know we are at the bottom here. And then as you're heading down, then you can lift and take the bottom part first. And the reason for doing that is... Oh, did you do the range there? Is because you can... If you start from the top and you have a big one, then you can... The diaphragm can descend and then you can start to... Yeah, you get a CSF leak then as you try and clear the inferior part. The tumour is out of the cellar but it's not out of the patient. Please. There on the top. Okay. Okay. No? I can't hear you. No? I can't hear you. Nice. That's it. I think we're done. Are you happy? Yeah, are you happy we finished? Yeah, I think we finished. Great. I think we've finished everyone. Finished. Time?