 So I think our first session is going to be Dr. Roman's going to be our moderator. We have some local and regional Experts who are going to be part of the panel our first session is going to be controversies and timing of surgical intervention And our current evidence dr. Saka Bramant from temple is going to be our moderator our panelists are dr. Irfan Ahmed Dr. Craig one of our Star Wars who's been here who currently does trauma at Abington and dr Rakesh Mashrou another one of our Dedicated faculty who's been part of the program for many many years Our objectives are interpret current evidence guiding safe timing of ortho surgical intervention in trauma patients It's damage control and related concepts in 2019 Great thanks alright, so this will be a One hour session we'll get through as many cases and slides as we can and then we'll try to keep moving to the next session So thanks guys for being here, so I'll just you know I'll just kind of maybe I'll just kind of make an introduction Oh Rakesh here is at Cooper. It's a level one trauma center one of the regional centers in Jersey does ortho trauma like I do Irfan Ahmed is at Newark University Hospital so the other regional trauma center in Jersey from North Jersey Dr.. Ahmed's a hand surgeon, so he's involved in a lot of care for the stuff that me and Rakesh see But he sometimes is really the he's the hand guy and upper extremities. We does a lot of the upper extremity trauma and Matt Craig's orthopedic trauma surgeon kind of more like me and Rakesh who's up at Abington which is busy level two trauma, so I think we all have a slightly different perspective I'm here. You know in North Philly. I see a lot of gunshot injuries Rakesh Sees a lot of sort of major high-energy trauma, and you know Irfan and Matt You see you know a little bit different stuff than us. I think so With that these are my disclosures. They are in the program Hopefully they don't Adversely affect the session these are the objectives so hopefully you're all gonna get familiar with current evidence guiding safe timing of orthopedic surgical intervention and trauma patients and see if we can possibly understand these concepts of damage control And related issues and where the pendulum stands now, so here's a case just to get things started And you know these cases There's a lot of info so and there's gonna be a little audience response So I know it may be hard to process everything, but you know this is like like a typical OITE question you may see all this stuff coming at you, and you have to make a decision so And this is like a real case so 32 year old male Motor vehicle crash right type 3a open femur It also has a pretty bad operative distal radius fracture He's got some chest injury. He's got a head injury. He's got some facial injuries abdominal injuries, so he's got everything He's got an open femur So I'll just come back right here for a second because I'm gonna. I'm gonna ask you guys. What's your next step, okay? So I'll just let you take a second to look at that the audience And then I'm gonna come back to the audience response, and you're gonna. Tell me what what's your what's your next step for this guy? so go ahead let's Count it down What's our countdown 10 seconds, okay, so go ahead click in your responses We'll see what you think and then we'll let the Let the panelists See You know what they think so it seems like most people want to do an ed washout traction or tomorrow Some people want to do an urgent operative I and D and X fix Maybe I'll just ask Rakesh here. What might make you what's what might what might make you do for? Seems a lot of people want to do for I think If you're I mean ed washout is fine. I mean as a provisional thing I mean if you're just going to get something done assuming the patient is just so unstable that you know is dynamically stable Yes I mean ed washout is fine, but I wouldn't substitute an ed washout for an actual operative depreement Okay, and the OR tomorrow part of it We would we would probably do something that night, okay, anybody would anybody do number four on the panel I guess it defines what do you mean by tomorrow and the time of day? So it's it's 6 p.m. This guy comes in at 6 p.m. I Don't think I'd commit to an Definitive treatment that night and I also try to look at these questions You know We mentioned a diverse audience what I would do and what I would ask somebody else to do if they're gonna hand me the case Kind of two different things. Yeah, maybe if I was up for fixing it, okay, I'll fix it, but I own it I'll take care of the problem take care of the non-union of the infection if that's the deal But if somebody's going to hand the sale off to me I don't mind if they just you wouldn't ask me to do two seems like a lot of people wanted to yeah If you don't got to bust on the hand surgeons if you're a hand surgeon You're not feel comfortable putting an x-fix on a femur because you haven't done that in a while That's okay, but I have no problem with just washing up, but we have some trust issues. All right Well, there's I've been to it, but I mean traction. I'm good. I would I I would err with Rakesh here So that's that's what was done here For this case, I honestly couldn't tell you exactly what time of the day it was or anything I don't remember how bad the head injury was. I do think the patient was hemodynamically stable I don't know what I've seen is we usually don't get a red light from Neurosurgery to do a washout that you know, or it's in a debridement that really needs to be done You know because I think my experience is they usually just don't want you there for too long So if you're saying like, you know, we're gonna be less than an hour I usually find that they're okay with that Let's move ahead black tape, that's my point for the for the traction you People can muck around for a long damn time putting on x-fix. So correct if you can do it quickly fine So I mean that's a good point actually you hear people you hear people say all the time Well, I can you know, I can do a retrograde femoral nail quicker than putting on an x-fix I mean and you have to be careful with statements like that I mean that may or may not be true, but you know putting a retrograde femoral nail or an integrated nail, whatever in this case You know Again, this is a perfect damage control case. So I think Even though you may be fast on putting nails and very quickly There's nothing, you know, you can never be faulted for put an x-fix. You can be faulted for putting a nail in and then something And I think there's some evidence to suggest that traction versus x-fix traction was fine. Yes That is true. There is I believe that came from Dr. Bossy Center who's gonna be here today? So that comes up we can certainly ask him about it out of Carolina's Medical Center So that patient got it, you know was it open fracture or remind you this was a 3a open fracture So we've got a debridement x-fix patient desaturated overnight after repositioning Vent settings were changed to assist control sats in the 90s lactates 1.7. So hospital day 1 lactates 1.7 They're fine. I don't even know what to make of this vent settings thing. You did surgery gen surge for three years like this is What does this mean? so on here, I Think that's a very basic thing with AC that you have to look at a lot more of the parameters AC means assist control that means the Ventilator will breathe for you unless you take a breath on your own They'll help you but if you're not taking any breaths, then then it will it will do the work for you but I think the more important things to know in this is one what the SATs are to You know what Fi or two are they getting what peak pressure is Are they using so if you're using a lot of pressure to keep the lungs ventilated then? Yes, then that patient isn't isn't stable. So I don't know if just AC is something you can rely on I think SATs in the 90s is More important lactate is trending down. So in that part looks okay hemoglobin 7-1 well, you know, he's 35 and and it doesn't seem his cardiac wise I don't know if all the information's there or not But I think the SATs in the 90s is probably the most important thing And you already have an X fix on right initially I was gonna say that's two separate things open fracture Debridement versus X fix for a femur fracture. I think you can look at it two different ways Do you need to wash it out because it's open or do you need to X fix it because? Making the femur stable is better for pulmonary and preventing ARDS But I think the SATs in the 90s are the most worried. So how much are you guys? Involving you know, are you to what extent are you completely relying on to the sick? You says this patient is not okay for the OR. Let's say the patient sick. You said patients. Okay for the OR I mean, how do you guys weigh? The input from your trauma consultants and how much do you feel? Do you ever how often are you disagreeing with them? I'll start maybe with Matt I mean maybe less than half the time, but it's not zero. So I guess the fortunate thing now is it used to be like you admitted the patient that was your patient and then that one doctor Took care of the patient now. They have this more of a cycle every 24 hours So one day the guy says they're not cleared and the next day they're cleared What just happened? Not really nothing changed, but the guy's comfort level or lack of Interest in caring for the patient may be changed So yeah, I do involve them, but I try to look at the whole situation understand what the what's going on with this patient It's one of those damage control. You have to wait maybe five days What do you think of it? What about you are you finding yourself agreeing disagreeing with them? Are you having to sort of say? Wait a second. I don't like the SATs and the lactate. Well, how are you clearing this guy? Well, that happened a lot to you No I think that unfortunately the pendulum is swinging a little bit where we're relying too much on SICU and and the trauma guys who say the gen so trauma the ICU tendings and Someone says they're not stable like all right I guess they're saying they're not stable because the thought of fighting and going to the OR after somebody has Said or documented that the patient's not stable and then something happens you're you're worried about that So you I think you tend to back away a little bit We do have combined conferences with our trauma team And I think they are familiar with the concept of early stabilization, but I think we are backing away More than I would probably like Yeah, I agree with everyone I think You know, it's it's unusual that we would trump the you know, trauma surgeon say no, you know, you're wrong We're taking this patient to the OR. In fact, I can't really think of a situation where that would happen Having said that though we have a similar setup now at least in place where you know every morning we actually do have a attending to attending discussion about all the trauma patients who are on the board for that day and You know if there's one or two, that's that's not You know quote-unquote stable for the OR there is a discussion why? But usually we do defer to our general surgery colleagues You know and and unless you know unless it's something that You know, it's just so egregious which I can't again. I can't think off the top of my head that's ever happened But yet for us is the same way usually rely on our trauma on our trauma service at the now You know a lot of the literature uses trauma scoring systems, you know, and I know a lot of our trauma databases, you know for in Pennsylvania, it's Pennsylvania trauma systems Foundation you guys I don't know if it's ACS or something else but This stuff gets scored. I never see it used at the point of care. Is that unanimous? I mean, I mean if these are Things used for registry purposes and when you're doing research studies, but okay, so I don't see them being used either So this patient does not go to the OR by hospital day three. They're okay for the OR the femur looks Okay, the wound looks okay. He's in an X fix Or fun. What do you think about this patient goes the OR for the distal radius? You ever see something like this happen Not the femur yet the distal radius though. No, that's that's rare I think usually they would stabilize the long bone and if they're clear well, it's an X fix well I still think that if they're stable for the OR from From where we are either we would try to do both at the same time or if one is needed Then it's probably the femur that needs to be fixed. This will radius can be taken care of I mean, I haven't seen the x-rays but but from a practical standpoint, let's say this patient's in the hospital. There's a real case the You know the ortho trauma people are completely backed up and you have a slot and the resident says listen Dr. Ahmed, you want to just get this distal radius done? He's already in the X fix and you know, you're in that room We can't fit the traction table in there Just get it done Yeah, I mean I won't say that's never happened and I would say that's not totally unreasonable and the patient's stable to Get one at least taken care of It's not ideal or where you would think if you had a multiple-choice question where you would want exactly I agree This is not a textbook sequence, but I'm giving you a real case. This is exactly what happened to this patient. I think is that The way the day lined up there was an easy way to get the wrist done That was gonna need to get done at some point. It clearly was not necessary at hospital day three But the femur could not happen that day So no, this is not your black dot answer, but What was the reason again for the femur? Nothing? It was just people busy. I think I can't honestly I can't remember I know this case. Well, it's not that long ago. It's last year Okay, but and actually I didn't fix this rate. It wasn't my or day But I mean, I think that it was a case that I think the patient might have been in the OR for gen surge for something else Patient was in the OR with Jen surge I believe and it was an easy setup to get the distal radius done not necessarily for the femur Because there was another full room going so anyhow, I mean I just wanted to get your take on it so Rakesh how do you handle? Head injury issues. So this guy's got a head injury. What do you is there any literature you want to quote? Is there anything specific at your institution that you guys use to decide? Now this guy had an open fracture So there's some immediate issues that night but then the next day even during the week How do you guys handle the head injury patients? I mean, of course, you know in terms of acute management of the head injury clearly We would defer to our neurosurgery colleagues, but in terms of how it relates to the care of the orthopedic trauma patients I mean, I'm assuming you're talking about like in terms of Reimu I'm talking about timing. How does that impact? You know when you guys are trying to decide let's say if it was a closed femur closed femur comes in poly trauma patient they have a head injury like Is there any criteria or is it simply just whatever the neurosurgeon say or? Like no goes that are for sure. No, I mean unless the you know, the patient's actively, you know bleeding or actively stroking You know as long as the neurosurgery team is is comfortable with us going we will take him and we'll put we'll even put ream nails Yeah, I mean even even even acutely It's it's it's you know, just trying to think off the top of my head We try to get to these sooner rat rather than later, I mean unless they're having an acute neurological event short of that You know, we we tend to be aggressive I mean what we've seen is a lot of times they're gonna get serial CT scans usually by the time Those first couple, you know, maybe it's not serial. Maybe it's just a one repeat, but That usually happens well over the first 24 hours or so I mean, I think they usually have some idea where this is heading by then So, you know, I guess at my center if this is a closed femur and came in at 6 p.m With a head injury. We're definitely not nailing it that night But would you do it the next day? so if The lactate was cleared and that's a good question So if this guy had a closed femur would we nail him the next day? Well in this case, he had some pulmonary issues, but if it was just the head Yeah, I think from a head injury standpoint We would nail him the next day if his lactate was cleared and otherwise we felt he was resuscitated Yeah, I think the only literature I'm aware of is like Emergency like within two hours Nailing femurs with head injuries probably a bad idea outside of that. It's like talk to your neurosurgeon, right? All right. So this patient, you know, it's like a Thursday. So this now rolls over to a Monday I believe is probably how this this evolved and now Patients been stable, I guess, you know at least in my center. We kind of feel you know, the patient has the X fix We kind of are at least good for a little while we don't want the pin getting infected But we also don't feel like the urgency as much as if the patient's maybe in skeletal traction To get the patient right back to the OR. So You guys think? Eight days. Okay, let's say you know the rest thing never happened or is gonna happen now You guys are right converting at a week I think eight days. Okay, I think two weeks is the you don't like going past two weeks. Okay. Well, why retrograde? What's that why not integrate now, oh why not we're not gonna get into that Anyhow Yeah separate discussion could have been I guess this patient And I'll just say as a side note X-fixes are not a free lunch. I've seen these sometimes where this guy had a head injury also so you can chalk it up to that very aggressive Bone healing response. That's five weeks What you can't really appreciate here is that you know Some of this HO are like little pillars of bone sticking up through his muscle if you can kind of recognize he has he has this HO forming at each of the external fix for pin sites and these things they don't look that bad on x-ray But they're literally like little spikes going through his quads I've seen this in some femur x-fix patients Occasionally in the pelvis and poly trauma patients to get this aggressive HO response actually had to take this guy to the OR Actually had to do a manipulation on him six weeks out and then I had to take him to the OR and resect all that Stuff and do like a judea kind of quadplasty to get his knee moving better So, you know x-fixes kind of sound great at the time You know, they they scar down the quads. They cause this HO sometimes. I mean, they're getting infected We got to be careful So if I can ask a question on that to the for HO excision for just take this example I mean, I've gone back and forth in terms of timing for HO excision So I just wanted to see what these guys thought, you know here I guess you did six months post-injury, which is sort of the I guess the party line Have you ever done it sooner than that? And if you have like do you ever have you ever regretted resecting HO sooner than six months? I've got All I'll say is I've gone a little earlier than I then I haven't if I didn't even get a bone scan on him We just kind of did this. Mm-hmm But you say you have come back on you. Yeah, I Mean that's just you know anecdotal. There's no I Like the six month time point I can't say that I waited for six months it just kind of It's just kind of how it played out with this gentleman in particular So I think that you know in my opinion there's a little bit of a pendulum here so Not too long ago. I mean we had a concept of early total care Which is that you know, it was the patient was too sick to not operate on is that I think how the quote would go You really had to kind of aggressively Stabilize fixed long bone fractures very early and then I think certainly during my residency There was the concept that got very popular of damage control orthopedics in which patient was too sick to operate on and you shouldn't be doing renailings acutely and This is the term that has gotten a little bit more popular now that I would say is a little bit of a swingback of The pendulum to this so-called early appropriate care, and I don't know exactly where we're heading from there There's a couple of papers From Cleveland where you know, dr. Valiere has been the lead author and sort of I guess you could say popularizing this Early appropriate care technique It's very simple And what they've shown is that it's a little bit of a swing back to early total care that hey Maybe we're expecting too many patients early. Maybe everybody doesn't really need a damage control. Maybe it's prolonging their care Maybe that guy who got his nail done at eight days could have been nailed at three days Etc. So what they really said was that you know when you did Definitive surgery within 36 hours with these parameters the patients did well and they got out of the hospital and Mobilized sooner than if you use the damage control approach Multi-center study Dr. Bossy's one of our guest faculty was involved in also showing that you know admission lactate and pre-op lactate is important In our assessment and I would say and I would ask you guys at your centers I mean, are you looking at this more than in the past? Are you as part of your evaluation lactate levels? you can just Yes or no No, not as much as I think they showed but I think it's just Looking at the overall response and then again deferring to the trauma property what they say I Would say at our Center they've been doing I mean they used to be that I would ask what the lactate level is and I Was told nobody drew it and I was like that sucks and then now it seems like I don't know Maybe we just keep talking about or maybe in their mind. They think it's important I seem to I seem to always have it when I when I ask for it. So this is I think I want to get your take on this. So this to me was really hammered into me I would say, you know what I was learning about damage control orthopedics and this was taught and this is on all the OIT exams and All the ortho trauma textbook that you had this second hit window, right? That was between you know That first trauma and peaked between one and five days and it was sort of like it was no touch time So that if a patient came in and they're getting resuscitated and that's all fine And maybe there are lactate clears, but you had this window when you weren't supposed to operate on them for fear of stimulating a surge response and Precipitating ARDS and everything like this What do you guys think? Where are we with this now because this early appropriate care? Does not really I think I don't know Does it really address this because if you're clear if you're saying the lactate is cleared you go by 36 hours You're right in the middle of that window. So how do we reconcile this? Whoever wants to take it. Well, I guess the term early appropriate care like what is early what is perfect? But if you've ever seen somebody Crump after a second hit it makes you sort of ponder Why did I just do that and you find out they're in the vent, you know The in the unit for two weeks on the vent Well, maybe if you waited a couple days that would be okay You know what he would you try to figure out we don't know who those patients are trying to figure it out And then there's some people who you waited the five days and then boom They're they're perfect. Like you you got it, right? So when you get the ones, right, you're happy when you get the ones wrong It's devastating Oh, we don't know we learn from experience. Exactly. So it's I think there's more data out there that's helping them There's we're trying to use those surrogate markers for who's ready and who's not ready whether it's you know, clinical parameters or lab But I guess I'll ask some question. Is this still correct or no? Because if you're saying a patient clears their lactate and is good with 36 hours and you should do early appropriate care This I think that flies in the face of this I think that's only one marker of resuscitation and versus pulmonary status neurologic status Just I mean the second hit phenomenon exists in certain, you know clinical scenarios But that's not doesn't necessarily mean you still can't continue doing early appropriate care. I think early appropriate care is you're right I mean, I agree. It's much different. The thought is different than you know, just Damage control timing is different. Yeah, it's earlier Yeah, you know rather than like we were talking earlier before, you know Should you put a femoral nail in versus X fixing something, you know? Because I would say in the damage control approach you're fixing you're doing that I am nail here with early appropriate care you doing the I am nail here so But but that graph in the in the person getting the I am now The spike may not be as high dependent for this other injuries. That's what I'm saying I don't think you can take that graph and make a generic Blanket statement saying this is the rule of orthopedic trauma. I think I Guess each patient would have a graph there and I guess it's up to you to decide Where that how high that spike goes for that one patient whether you decide you want to wait versus go Okay Food for thought. All right. So next case 45 year old male dirt bite Versus auto accident Also an open femur some kind of give me all these open femurs that you kind of need to do something right away but I still think it's Instructive to think about the next step so open femur bunch of other stuff Actually, including that's us insignificantly a right traumatic amputation above the knee. So contralateral aka in the field Massive blood loss as you can imagine from his traumatic aka and an open femur on the other side persistent hypotension on presentation lactate 6.2 so Patient goes to the OR they clean up the stump patient has Debris months external fixation So Question next steps so The patient came in in the middle of the night next day stabilized, you know during the day So now it's hospital day two. They're okay to go back to the OR patients stable He was an adequately stable resuscitated as far as you can tell lactate 1.7 patients awake Excavated so I am nail now This was a dirt bike injury, so I mean we base it on you know, what is dirt bike injury outside on Broad Street? The Wound was clean. I mean clean as in the sense. No All this is glass, I mean so some contamination with you know debris Yeah, it was not it. It was not that clean It was also a slight question about you know There was so much going on at the time that maybe the knee washout needed to be looked at again I've been accused of having trust issues So he goes back for another I and D by me with a planned procedure, you know This guy's got one leg left and you got to get it, right? The amputation rate on his left side is not zero Wash him out again get it you get a handle what's going on in the knee and then give him a look It's like a stress test. Is he gonna survive a lesser procedure and then come back in? Okay, so I think these are all these are all good thoughts I mean, I think a lot of the stuff you guys are saying we're coming to my mind to that Plus I think it was a case also where It was really, you know, it was actually the patient went to the plastics room and we could have certainly converted and sort of bounced room to room to get the nail done, but Yeah, I think you're right. It's his only leg. You got to get it, right? Do you really want to be bouncing between two rooms and you're not sure if this you know You're doing a second look I and D and you have to wash out the knee that you weren't sure if it was really washed out the first time And a lot going on in the room So and the guy had a very narrow canal diameter which I realized I had to call in a loaner Implanted to do this that I normally don't keep here So that's what we did So if my question that a week in Hospital day two if the wound was clean, would you nail it then? so I would say I think so, yes, but I I've someone's got it. Someone's got to like convince me that like this is not a problem I'll be honest with you. This is exactly what was running through my head with this case is like wait a second I know his lactate's good. But how do I know he's not peaking at hospital day two from a Potential SERS hit so I would say I think yes, I think yes, I think if everything else was okay We probably could have would you guys agree that from a sort of Early appropriate care standpoint. Maybe he would have been fine to fix Matt and Rakesh. Yeah, I know I think I mean if the wound was clean and if you were the one who did the debris Men or one of your you know, I guess one of your partners who you You know trusted I suppose that you know did it I think I think you could you could nail it. Okay Case three 27 year old female unrestrained driver airbags deployed intubated on arrival It's 10 p.m. All right, so here's the vitals All right lactate level 13 a little bit 14.6 patients Otherwise hemodynamically stable a lot of stuff going on. Okay, so Open femur fractures bilaterally. I'll point that to your attention Chest and abdominal injuries brain injury, so pretty much everything Okay Patients, okay for the OR to to to take care of the open femur fractures What are you thinking Rakesh Anything complicated here or just kind of like our first case Complicated here or just kind of like our first case Lot going on and yeah, I mean the patient's clearly you would take them to the OR Yeah, I mean clearing the patient's an extremist so I think you know wash out and bilateral x fix should be okay, okay So, you know and that's what you got, you know sort of middle third bilateral femur fractures chest injuries So the patient gets that done Right thigh wound is closed left side gets negative pressure wound therapy. So So now what's your timing And I got some other questions there for you to patient got bilateral injuries Actually, let's you know, we've talked a lot about timing obviously the topic of the session, but What do you guys think about filters? Good question Patients got foot injuries c-spine injury Well, it's not an op C spine and pelvic injuries bilateral femur fractures and a head injury the liver also Yes, so a lot of considerations is this the case They're fun at your center. Is this something you see might might get a filter? Yeah, we actually try to Push bore for a filter and we have a quite a robust tumor service as well and when they are dealing with certain they try to push for filter more than not they actually get pushbacks and Whenever we do review a PE the first question is why didn't they get a filter? I know filters not without their complications But our threshold is you know, if there's there's a doubt we usually ask a request Patient should probably get a filter. Yes. Yes or no. Do you guys think that this pendulum has swung too far away from not? using filters Meaning like do you think they should be used more than they are now? Yes or no. I Think they should be used thoughtfully but more do you think that we've gone away from them too much? Yes or no? Yes, I think so I think in our Matt I Where I am I think it's sort of just right. I mean some I'm not do I have to sometimes fight for one? I guess so, but I don't see I think this is a good case for this. I think we kind of have maybe I think that Yes, we're probably doing too many filters I would see patients in my clinic who I would realize how to filter in and I was like, oh wait a second You have a filter and I'm the only doctor you're seeing now, you know a month out because everybody else is done with them I was like, maybe we need to get that out I wonder how many patients I didn't even think about telling them because they don't have to follow up with radiology so Filters were getting left in probably thrombogenic and cause problems so but I think I Have seen patients that I think could have had filters and didn't and I think it's just not something that people are thinking about Anymore, I don't think that discussion comes up. So So this patient goes to the OR Is X-fixed goes the OR one week later X-fixed removal Still negative pressure wound therapy on the left thigh gets extubated post-op day to head injury is Getting better Dr. Craig, what do you think? He set me up that's my case We She did. All right. She everyone was surprised She ended up getting presented at a meeting three months after the event because of her high ISS and I said Oh, I just saw her yesterday. She walked in. She was, you know, holding her baby. She's 27 we kind of also left out the fact that she was a heroin addict, but Came in clean. I Think the timing was good Neurosurgery was a little challenging to get to yes in terms of her timing But I like the five-day point and we fixed her at seven days. I think six or seven days and then it's also a conversation with the trauma team with the anesthesia team and My opinion orthopedic doctor doing procedure. This is what we're gonna do. There's my plan We're gonna also with bilateral femur fractures. We're gonna fix one. See how you do Okay, if she cromps after one fine, let's get out of here. We did one at a time We prepped and draped one leg fixed one leg and then we paused It sort of have another little huddle and say okay She's gonna survive another femur fracture nailing if not, we keep the x-fix on to come back for another day So we kind of had a whole so do you guys? Or maybe I'll just Rakesh. Do you take the same approach? So let's say it was a damage control case, but you got both femurs Do you say let's Plan to nail both as long as things are going well, or do you definitively say, you know? I don't like nailing both the same time no matter what we're gonna come back two days later I mean, I guess you just see how the case is going. Okay, you know, you tell them like you might get both done, right? I mean you plan for both you accept one hope for two. Okay, it's a good question I mean, I think nailing both femurs at the same time is a consideration It's one of the things you think about when you decide is this a so-called, you know, borderline patient to go down a damage control route So I think it's a good good discussion, so This is a separate. This is not that case. So this is an audience response again for your clickers. So You have a poly trauma patient with a femur fracture, okay? Lactate is normalized after 36 hours. Okay, so they come in lactates five and now it's 1.2 But they're still like 90s over 60s all night long. They're making good urine the hemoglobin. Okay, they're not tachycardic So doesn't seem like an all-out obvious shock picture and it's 36 hours later So what are you gonna do with their femur fracture? So let's give a countdown So Select your answer Wait another day. They're in skeletal traction. Try again for tomorrow Go ahead with the next fix or proceed with I am nailing Again small portion of the audience actually answering questions, but For those who answered What do you guys think so it looks like people are saying proceed with I am nailing But some people want to wait another day What you guys do this is actually a case. This is a case. I had last week so patient You know, I was like, where's the lactate and he said well here it is We always have it for you now, and it was normalized. So 90s over 50s all night long The lactate thing is you're treating lab tests not the patient So I think it's one picture that helps you then there's the other patient who's completely normal But this patient completely blood pressure is okay, and the lactate still high they're making urine. They're good. They're good. Everything's fine. They're awake They're alert. They're talking to you. The pulmonary status is fine and their lactate still high then what do you do? Well, what are you gonna do for this patient? I said wait another day. Why are they why I want to know why they're hypotensive Anesthesia is gonna make them hypotensive more before you even touch them from an orthopedic standpoint. What do you guys think? What's your answer one two or three? I probably wouldn't nail him. Maybe that either one or two. It's not it's not three. Okay We did two and The guy was still intubated That wasn't really the issue it was really just that You know, I think we put a lot of faith in like looking at a lot of these parameters But if someone's hypotensive, they're hypotensive and maybe just something's not adding up. So Yeah, I see you attending and I kind of agreed maybe we shouldn't nail him But we didn't know when this hypotension was gonna get better. So we could wait another day and skeletal traction, I guess but We thought if this is gonna continue, maybe we should expect them. So that's what that's what we did so different case just The you know kind of show how these things can go sometimes 56 year old male status post fall from a ladder five feet So cinder block fell on top of him. So a little bit abdominal injury pelvic injury No fractures, but open femur fracture with vascular injury multi-leg knee injury And some other stuff and not the healthiest patient 56 year old male diabetes hyperlipidemia Lactates elevated on admission. So patient goes to the OR Gets a vascular repair Gets a spanning x-fix antibiotic beads thigh fasciotomy How concerned are you How concerned are you are fine look at this now So yeah, I think this would be one. Yeah, this is definitely I mean if it wasn't for the vascular injury This guy meets the thing where you would probably do damage control not try to do An eye and nail just wash it and x-fix it and I think you have to The the curve which you showed I would definitely wait at least day five on this you have to look at you sometimes call endpoints of resuscitation or see if a patient is Responding to your resuscitation and if they're not responding at all Then they're probably not the best candidate to take to the OR and if they are responding Then you have to look at what the reserves are how young they are and you can maybe trial this guy Reasonably, he's 54, but he has a lot of other issues. I would wait till he's Pristine before proceeding to the OR so he Stabilizes a little bit to at least get him to the OR to do a second. Look gets that done Antibiotic beads are exchanged hospital day three What's going on, I mean, I'm not gonna belabor the point here, but the point is You know, sometimes you have young healthy trauma patients and sometimes you have trauma patients have a lot more going on with a vascular injury That's not going so well. This guy had a clotted repair and This this this this was a fatal a fatal injury for this patient actually so You know open femur fractures are no joke. I guess is the way I would put it. So I think Vascular injury the tibia I think is 5050. I can't remember if it's also glutes femur, but it's you have a 3c It's a 5050 shot. You're gonna save the leg. Yeah. Well this guy died I'm not even saving his leg. I mean this guy died. Yeah, I mean, no, we're not gonna have an M&M conference So I kind of wanted to point this out. Some people would argue to why see the leg So, you know in an M&M conference you'd be talking about like this patient have had something else done And I'm leaving out a lot of details and I don't remember a lot of details with this particular patient But I think it's just worth saying, you know open femur fractures are bad actors. I really don't like the ED washout For the open femur fracture patient that we kind of started the session off with And I'm glad you guys kind of shot that down right, okay Because I mean like the patients can bleed out Anyway, so another audience response question you have a poly trauma patient Multiple gunshot injuries obviously is one of our patients left distal femur shaft fracture right tibia fracture It's been 36 hours. I keep saying 36 hours because again early Appropriate care right? So a lot of the data that's I think where we're at in 2019, right? Which is maybe we're doing too much early total care Maybe then we're doing too much damage control after the surgery Early total care, maybe then we're doing too much damage control x-fixing everybody We can probably fix a lot of these patients within 36 hours with definitive treatment, right? So it's 36 hours It's lactate is normalized making good urine hemoglobin is okay guys tachycardic in the 140s There's not hypotensive. He's just tacking away 140s 150s. This is a guy actually had to treat on Monday How old audience response let's give a countdown do we get our we know the ideology of the recording No, he's just tacky cardic. He's in the unit and he's just tacking away and they're just like young guys It's tacky cardic young guy Young guy multiple gunshot injuries 10. Let's get our countdown so young guy tachycardic They're giving him IV fluids, maybe he got a little bit of blood I'm not entirely sure to be honest with you So, what do you do? So audience says? we're gonna So pretty big spread I would say but a lot of people want to x-fix this But some people think you know, you can either wait or I am nailing so Go down the panel here Rakesh I Will just process of elimination that you either Either two or three. I mean, I don't think I would I Would try to at least get to one of the long bones. I mean, you know, I Guess the same thing, you know, you'd see how you know, the I'd start with the femur Okay, and then and then keep working until you want to do something. You don't want to wait another day in traction. No Okay, Irfan So saying if this is a youngish guy, it's His heart rates in the 140s and that's maintaining his lactate and urine output and everything and that's Pushing it, but I think taking the or might push him or her over The edge. I don't think I would nail anything right now. So not three or four. I don't see Huge issue in waiting another day Especially it's the three-day window and if you go the hit of anesthesia plus everything else So I think I would probably wait another day So Matt, let me ask you a slightly separate question if the patient wasn't tachycardic Would you proceed with I am nailing in the femur and tibia? Yes. Okay. Yeah blood pressure. Okay young guy GSW is they're not technically open fractures we say So and then that would be the early appropriate care. I mean that was the plan with this guy So this guy was on for I am nailing the femur and the tibia But you know He's tachycardic and 140s and like the same discussion mean the ICU attending like So we x fix the guy And then brought him back not in a week within a week. I think we X I think he got X fixed on a Sunday and I Fixed him on Wednesday or something like that I mean he was he proved himself to be stabilized totally fine and we didn't feel the need to wait and then we did fix both All Right, so we're getting closer to the end So try to get through a little bit more and then we'll wrap it up So case five twenty nine year old female slightly different injury here I mean a lot of open femurs, but we'll just say poly trauma a lot going on right chest injury proximal femur fracture liver lack head injuries so all kinds of stuff going on so Hospital course patient comes in lactase 3.4 trends down And This case is I don't remember the details too long a few years ago, but I had good pictures on it So I had it tucked away somewhere. So I pulled it back out again for this discussion I'm gonna just say there was some major chest problem going on with this patient It was a flail chest surgery has been asking us to hold off hold off hold off So what's your next step? When do you end up doing something like some kind of X fix or something like that for a proximal femur? So if it's a pocket if it's a if it's a peritrope fracture, are you saying no Let's take it next fix it because you're not gonna let us do anything else or you kind of sitting on that I'd want to have a little conversation with C2. What are we waiting for? They say oh, yeah Well, I know but what are we waiting for? Well, what what is it that you're that they are looking at to say? You can't go yet. Well, what is it? Is it blood pressure? Is it heart rate? Is it what is the marker for its go time versus you have to wait? Okay, what's gonna change from day to day that today's no and tomorrow's yes, okay And a lot of times it's just like I just don't feel comfortable like well This patient is also the bad femur fraction. He needs to be taken care of I wouldn't want X fix in that proximal femur. I would just leave her interaction. What do you guys think? Is like proximal femur fracture like when you now have everything else we've talked about Do you are you just saying? Oh, it's a femur, you know So if I have to stabilize that I can X fix it. Are you more likely to kind of maybe sit on it? I Mean I think X fixing proximal femur fractures are problematic I mean, I think that that that's I mean you can obviously do it. I Mean that actually doesn't look that bad. It looks pretty good, but I Don't think you'd be faulted for leaving it and do we have an x-ray and interaction? I mean if the x-ray interaction is poor and it's I mean, I don't think that I don't think that the lateral was Like an X fix to be honest, you know lateral but So, but I mean I agree with what Matt said I mean this is a discussion I mean, you know What what are we waiting for? And you know, what what you know, what are the parameters to say? You know good is good enough Yeah I mean, I think some of the stuff you guys brought up before is good because I think you know a lot of times Comes in on the weekend. You have one team taking care of it you come on on Monday the ITU attending is like I'm just seeing this patient for the first time and a Lot of times at academic centers Information flows like kind of like, you know down to residents and then back up and you have like an ED intern carrying the trauma pager or something like that and it's like I think that I Think what a lot of us have learned is that You know, not that the residents don't know what they're doing They know better about some things and we do but I think that the consistency tends to be you know The attendings for the most part, although even though sick you attendings changed, you know I they have no problem if I call the person who's on that weekend and say listen, I'm dealing with this now what was your thought on the weekend and you know who to reach and We've dealt with it before you've had this discussion five times before with the same people So I think we've learned that you got to have some attending to attending discussion and it's an ongoing thing that happens Hopefully as you have a working relationship with these people like what is it? Maybe this case got kicked down The line when it really didn't need to be right Maybe what Matt jumped out right out saying like well, why are they telling us to hold off? Well, maybe just someone casually kind of said that and that got filtered down to the intern and told our intern and now we're just Getting told patient not cleared Well, maybe if you talk to the CT attending look, oh, that's what you're gonna do patients should be. Okay Well, they say oh, I thought it was just one of these hip fractures that you guys like, you know do whenever You know like they thought it was a hip fracture Oh, somebody told me it was a hip fracture. Like it was an 85 year old white female fell from standing height No, this is not a hip fracture a quote-unquote hip fracture. This is a high-energy proximal femur fracture in young person This is different. So that's the cell they got. Oh, there's some hip fracture lady. Do we have to do this now? No, these guys wait, it's okay. And yeah, I get the message is wrong. I think you know Some of the other issues in the proximal femur are And the X fixes are awkward. We do them. I mean, I think I had to do one Week ago or something like that and the patient that we really were not gonna be able to fix at all and still haven't actually But they get you know, you're in a lot of soft tissue up there The pins drain a lot they get potentially infected and you can sort of Burn some bridges So I would argue and I think some of you guys are saying maybe the timing in this case could have been improved Perhaps with better communication if there could have been some clear understanding as to what exactly was holding this patient back from going Maybe some issues could have been addressed. Maybe you know You know when you have a fracture, it's not even X fixable You might have to have a discussion, you know, the trauma team might be thinking why can't you X fix it? And they're not cleared. They have to get an X fix and you're like I can't even X fix this fracture. It's an intraticular whatever Or it's just it's something like a you know, an inner trope or something. I think it's a good example I mean, I you don't want to have to X fix an inner trope. So anyhow That's what happened with that patient. I'm going to For the sake of time Skip this last case because I think it's more the same. I think this case really was just illustrating point What if you have multiple injuries? You have a pelvis you have a femur You have a lot of stuff that you have to fix your upper extremity fractures I think what we've learned is that Yes, you can like we were doing with early total care fixing everybody right when they came in you can stabilize them Relatively quickly and it seems like you can fix all those injuries Again, it's a logistical thing. Sometimes how much or time you have? Do you have all the expertise? It's a nasty nasty, you know, just a radius and really need her fond in the room Is he there for you? But if that all that lines up the practical stuff are the patients safe to get all this stuff fixed? Once they're stabilized after 36 hours the answer is like probably yes It's a case-by-case thing But I don't think we have to I don't think the pendulum is as far back as it was with damage control Which is like you were waiting on everything These slides are hard to follow. I'm not going to try to take you through them But I think I just want to make the point that this is a real debate in our community I think I thought it was an interesting session to start the meeting off with I know a lot of you may not be involved With a lot of this decision-making that we see it, you know, the trauma centers and ICUs and stuff like that but To me surgical timing is like it's a question we have all the time and is there a question we have with our colleagues? You all were taking call with us like the appropriate timing to fix this fracture. Should we wait? I mean and it's like I feel like we are still trying to figure this out And the some of the European journals like injury which I pulled a couple of these Again, I'm not going to try to take you through them But they're really trying to wrap their heads around like what's the right approach? We were big proponents of damage control You know certainly and the European literature injury journal in particular Now they're recognizing early appropriate care maybe is the way to go and trying to find like, you know, what's the definitive? Pathway protocol the coming up with new acronyms now That I'll spare you but if you're interested you could certainly Look this stuff up if I have time, I'll I'll post some of the papers on the orthoclips web page for this But I think it's It's it's it's it's I think it still comes down to like, you know understanding the literature where we are now communicating attending to attending and Hopefully, you know just learning from each other at sessions like this So I want to thank I want to thank our panel for coming in and lending their expertise. I think it was really helpful So, thanks